---------------Tech Comm---------------

Some of the climate change problems stems from a lack of communication
	-should use simple language, repeat and one other

there are a lot of negative effects of global warming
	-heat trapping CO2
	-military has a lot of concerns as well
	-could effect the economy as well

Several scientists want to cast doubt on the matter
	-typically would be funded by big businesses to do so
	-cast doubt on it by calling it a 'theory'

Global warming isn't getting the media coverage leftists think it should
	-by changing the words associated with climate change
	a real change will occur


Intro:

each Body paragraph must have a topic sentence
transitions will typiccally be at the end of a paragraph to transition
	-in addition to, in contrast to, furthermore

for any paper think of three things:
	1. purpose
	2. audience
		i.tech: at your level of thought
		ii. semi-tech: define a few things to help understanding
		iii. low-tech: don't know much at all
		iv. multi-tech: one document to make all understand
	3. genre

make sure all points made in paper are explicit and not 'between lines'
	-Brian Cox and the second Law of Thermodynamics

Concise: Uses few words to say much, but not necessarily the fewest number of words.
	it will strive to use the strongest possible words.

passive voice, "the soap was dropped by Tyler"
	when the subject of the sentence (Tyler) comes second to the action
	if you can append "by zombies" to the sentence, probably passive voice

avoid the word 'that'
	90% of the time it can be taken out. A filler word

Use metaphors and examples to bring more clarity

8 C's of technical writing:

clear: get your ideas into the head of the other person. paragraph (4-6 lines)
	acronym- Federal Drug Administration (FDA)
consistent: sans-seriff for slide/projections, but seriff font for written
	don't use contractions
	conventions for equations, blank line before and after, label on right
		label the variables beneath the equation.
concise: Goldilocks, not too much, not too little.... just right
correct: be sure that you have done your research
	grammatically divide the number/technicalities with correct punctuation
complete: having enough information that the reader knows what you are 
	talking about
	to be able to take an action with the added information.
concrete: info is presented factually and without bias
considerate: By following the other guidelines, you will be considerate
	be gender neutral
credible: use facts in your writing rather than generalities
	