------------  CS 5110  -------------

Jan 10, 2018

design systems to act for groups of humans
with 'green' city, find the best ways to make a system better

What is an agent?
it is autonomous, acts independently and is a computer system 
capable of autonomous action in some evironment

persistant software dedicated to a specific purpose
-autonomy: operate without intervention from humans and have control over
	their actions and internal state
-social ability: agents interact with other agents via some kind of agent
-reactivity: agents perceive their environment and respond to changes
-pro-activeness: able to exhibit goal-directed behaviour by taking initiative

BDI (belief desires and intentions)
other properties of agents:
-mobility
-veracity
-benevolence
-rational

Uncertain Pair-wise preferences:
how to match pairs (husbands and wives so they get along) very difficult to
consider all of the information that is going to be going into the system,
and give them all their first choice

revolutions within the computer field:
	1. ubiquity, everyone has one
	2. interconnection, communitcation
	3. intelligence, accept the computers 'judgements'


Jan 12, 2018:

interesting conundrum of car selling vs. the purchasing of the car
if the average price of the car is 5, even when the quality of the 
car justifies more, it is unlikely that a consumer would pay more than
the average when the quality isn't fully known. 
this is the case when only the seller knows the value of the car

Fields with inspired agents
	AI
	Software engineering

What are agents and why aren't they objects?
	agent can have multiple objects
	agents seem to be things that can come up with their own decisions
	-by giving objects/agents their agency, you are allowing them
	to make their own decisions

Why use agents?
	1. distributed environment, it is impossible to describe situation
	2. Former paradigms/thoughts aren't as relevant
	3. open systems (it is going to be hard to predict everything)
		-don't fully know the situation (extra variables)

Decentralization
	1. decisions made faster
	2. less infrastructure
	3. transparency

Motivations for Multi-agent systems:
	1. Solve problems too large for a centralized agent
	2. Allow interconnection and interoperations of multiple systems
	3. solution to inherentl distributed problems
	4. solutions that draw from distributed informations sources
	5. solutions where expertise are distributed
	6. conceptual clarity and simplicity of design
	7. to be able to hide strategies from competition

Benefits:
	1. faster problem solving
	2. decrease communication
	3. flexibility

*an agent is something that is capable of independent work/action on behalf
of its owner*

accessible/inacessible: gat all info vs. most real world situations
deterministic vs. non-deterministic: single guaranteed effect

hardest to predict/complex: dynamic/non-deterministic/inaccessible/continuous

Reactive agents: perceive and react to changes in their environment

stigmergy: changing environment to keep yourself informed(hansel and grettel)

basically trying to combine two different trains of thoughts:
	reactive, thinks completely for itself, but no big picture
	learning, programmed to approach in the 'best' possible way

environments:
	-environments are affected by actions that take place
	-constantly changing and it is difficult to tell exactly
	how an action is going to effect environment
	the state transformer function t(tau)
		represents the behavior of the environment
	perception: see function is the ability to observe the
		environment
	Agents that have 'state' as well:
		they analyze the state, take and action and continue
		acting.
	environment vs state:
		environment: the current facts, everything
		state: what we have chosen to remember, considers past
	
Utilities: may show a degree of happiness- 
	cardinal (quality of solution)
	ordinal (shows ranking-first, second, third)

V is or;
^ is and;
lottery:
[p,A;1-p,C] (probability of Getting A)
			1-p (probability of Getting C) 
you can take your chances getting A(hopefully)
or trade for some other value B. Where A > B > C

Risk averse: avoiding risk, and cashing out
Risk neutral: accepting some risk for more payour
Risk seeking: double down baby!

indifference curves:
	whether you care about quality or cheapness
		there will be indifference curves where things are rated
		at the exact same level
	individual won't care between any 2 points on the same curve
	combined, will result in an indifference map

marginal rate of substitution (MRS):
	basically negotiating- I will drop in quality for a cheaper item

Perfect substitute case and perfect colpliments:
	perfect substitue: lines with m = -1 on graph
	perfect compliments: right anled lines (same number dogs + buns)

expected return and expected utility:
	[p:A, (1-p):B] a 'lottery'
	expected return: what you get (in $$)
	expected value: what your return is worth

Game Theory:
	Prisoner's Dilemma: 2 friends jailed, who confesses? Tradeoff
	Payoff Matrix:
		our success depends on others making the same decisions
	normal form game
	Strategy:
		is the description of how we play our game
		dominant strategy:
			if there is a better option regardless of what the other
			guy does it is considered a dominant strategy

	Nash equilibrium:
		they are at a crossroads, where neither will give it up
		mutual best response

	pareto optimal:
		there isn't a better choice where you don't hurt the other
			constanst sum:
				where all options are at a pareto optimal
		pareto frontier: anything on the optimum line.


	Best Response:
		A collaboration, if you.... then I will....

	Satisficing equilibrium: there is a state that is good enough, will
		compromise
		



